Here in telephony billing is one
of the most important things.
Apparently the billing system for
the telephone network
is only second to the IRS in US.
Anyway, you can see that the system
keeps track of you, wherever you are,
how long talked, who called you,
for billing purposes.
So, it was a very small step to
have a counter in the system, and
countdown your credits as you
are talking on your phone.
As long as you keep your SIM topped up,
your phone would work.
And this is how prepaid
services were bought.
It turned out that this was much
bigger deal than what
the business people anticipated.
There were a lot of people
who did not have good credit
rating to get post paid services.
Kids under 12 could not get contracts.
There are lots of places where
there are no credit institutions.
And even the ones that are there, they're
not accessible to many, many people.
So a lot of cellular growth has
happened in developing countries.
In India the per capita land line
phones were about three for 100 people.
And now there's 73 mobile phones for
every 100 people.
They were able to leap frog the wire
line telephony directly to cellular.
So, the prepaid was a significant factor
in the growth of the cellular
industry worldwide.